# Why I Decided to Backpack the World During a Pandemic

*Tuesday, Sept 20, 2020*

*Written By: Stefano Roque*

As I write this, I am sitting at a cafe, in a square in Athens, Greece. It is mid-afternoon on a Tuesday, sunny and 31 degrees. Over the past 7 weeks, I have been on a trip that I have been looking forward to for years now. I have had the amazing privilege to visit 8 different countries in the past 7 weeks. As I reflect on the whirlwind that has been my trip so far, and I am incredibly happy. Sure, I'm happy that I am currently in Greece instead of my basement in Canada (Which most of the time between my university graduation and this trip was spent), but what I am really happy about is that I decided to take a risk and backpack the world despite the COVID-19 pandemic. Trust me, I did not make the decision to travel at this time on a whim. I spent months deliberating if it would even be worth it to travel and if I did travel, how I would do it safely and responsibly. My reasoning for deciding to travel during a pandemic essentially boiled down to three points.

- Traveling right now is a once in a lifetime opportunity
- I currently have the smallest amount of responsibility that I will ever have again
- I can visit cities that I am considering working in

### Traveling right now is a once in a lifetime opportunity

The year 2020 has rocked the tourism industry to its core. Many popular tourist destinations are seeing a 90% reduction in tourism compared to this time last year. The silver lining to this sad reality is that the people who are able and willing to travel during this time will get to experience these cities in a way that may never be possible again. Paris, which is one of the most popular tourist destinations in the world, felt almost empty. This let me experience the city in a way that we would have not been able to do with the droves of people that were normally there. We never had to make reservations to get into a restaurant, we never had to wait in line to get into an attraction and we never had trouble finding accommodation on short notice. Keep in mind this is during what is normally peak tourism season. One of the biggest blessings we have encountered on this trip, especially since we are on a "backpackers budget", is cheap accommodation. Due to the huge reduction in demand (without a substantial drop in supply) for hostels, hotels, and Airbnb's, the price for these places has dropped as well. We have been able to stay in hotels and relatively nice Airbnb's for the same price as it would normally cost to stay in an 8-bed hostel dorm with a shared bathroom.

### I currently have the smallest amount of responsibility I will ever have again

I graduated from Queen's University this past April. When I graduated, I realized that I was in a very rare position. I had no job lined up (thanks COVID!!!), didn't have my own house, didn't yet have a wife or kids, etc. Essentially I had almost no responsibilities that I would need to actively tend to in the near future. So what better time to take off and travel the world for a few months. I realize that there may never be another time in my life where I can take four months off and not have to worry about managing things back home. I know myself well enough that when I actually start my career, I will become immersed in it. If I decided that I would work for a bit and then do a post-university trip once things have stabilized in the world, I would have continued to push the trip back and then never actually do it as more responsibilities (and expenses) crept into my life. I realized that I needed to do this trip this year, or I would risk never doing it at all. I try to make big decisions in a way where I try to minimize regret in the future, and this trip was too important to me to be put off for later.

### I can visit countries that I am considering working in

I am born and raised in Canada, but I am planning on starting my career abroad for a multitude of reasons. I figured that on this trip, I could kill two birds with one stone and get to explore some cities that I am considering working in. Over the past few months, I was considering working in Amsterdam, Netherlands, or Berlin, Germany. I spent a few days in each city and really tried to get a sense of what it would be like to live there, even meeting with locals to ask them questions about what their lifestyle is like. I am really happy that I had the opportunity to do this and I feel much more comfortable moving to a new city after I have been able to learn about it in person. In case you were wondering, I have decided to pursue Berlin after visiting both cities and will most likely be moving out there in the new year!

This trip is just about halfway done and I already consider it one of the most worthwhile decisions I have ever made. I have been able to experience 8 different countries and cultures in a very unique way during a very unique time. If I had to go home tomorrow, I would be extremely sad, yet I would still consider this trip worth the money and time I have spent on it. I don't know exactly what the next few months have to offer (I'm hoping it is SouthEast Asia), but that is part of the fun and I am excited to see where it takes me. I feel like I have already been served my meal, everything after this is just dessert.
